In winter quarter, I went snowboarding at Tahoe for the first time; it was beautiful, and hitting the slopes on that famed California powder, rather than the West Virginia ice I was used to, was exhilarating. Around noon, I was finishing up one of my best runs of the day; it was my first time snowboarding in years but I had picked it up pretty quickly and I was on a high gliding into the loading area. I started to brake, but misjudged how fast I was going and just *ate shit*, tumbling and landing directly on my left shoulder. It got dislocated, and after popping it back in I found myself stuck in the place where you were supposed to soak in the victory over the mountain, but with a mouthful of powder and an umoving arm and a snowmobile coming to take me down to the hotel for an early lunch. Later that night, a few friends and I stayed up to watch the Australian Open Final. Djokovic and Nadal. Ani asked me, "You're rooting for Nadal right?" "Nope! I like Djokovic."  He and Erik looked at me puzzled. "Really?"

The same thing happened in Italy, funnily enough. You see, **cough cough** WHEN I WAS STUDYING ABROAD IN ITALY **cough cough**, every night while we eat our lavish dinner with salad, pasta, wine, entree, fruit, and dessert we also keep the TV on while we each, so much so that they joke the TV is an extra member. Anyways, this [ridiculous ass pasta commercial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W7rOLRlqhuM) starring Roger Federer was on. My most mom went, "Ah, mi piace." "Eh. Mi piace Djokovic." *loud tsk* "Davvero?"

This past weekend, Djokovic won Wimbledon in one of the best matches in recent years. Five sets, with Djokovic eking out a victory in a tiebreak after 24 games in the last set. By every conceivable measure, Federer played better: he won more games, more points, had more aces, won more break points, and was more effective with his first serve, his second serve, at the net, and even though Djokovic is widely considered the best returner in history, Federer won more receiving points, and at a higher rate. But at the end of the match, it was the wiry Serb who plucked the grass from the court and chewed while most everyone in the stadium, and in my Twitter feed, begrudingly clapped.

I think Djokovic is one of more interesting athletes in the world; I first started rooting for him for pretty dumb reasons. *Wait Wait Don't Tell Me*'s used the fact he has a monopoly on the world's supply of donkey cheese to bluff a listener, and after that I was hooked. There may be no other athlete so firmly in the running for the greatest of all time that elicits more apathy than Djokovic; in all likelihood, he will retire with the most Grand Slam victories of all time (4 slams behind Federer, four years younger, and he's a vegan health nut so he will age WELL), he's already the winningest player ever in terms of earnings, and he's the only player in the modern era to hold all four major titles at once.

So what gives? blahhhhh just read Brian Phillips. I like the lead in and stuff tho sigh
