In winter quarter, I went snowboarding at Tahoe for the first time; it was beautiful, and hitting the slopes on that famed California powder, rather than the West Virginia ice I was used to, was exhilarating. Around noon, I was finishing up one of my best runs of the day; it was my first time snowboarding in years but I had picked it up pretty quickly and I was on a high gliding into the loading area. I started to brake, but misjudged how fast I was going and just *ate shit*, tumbling and landing directly on my left shoulder. It got dislocated, and after popping it back in I found myself stuck in the place where you were supposed to soak in the victory over the mountain, but with a mouthful of powder and an umoving arm and a snowmobile coming to take me down to the hotel for an early lunch. Later that night, a few friends and I stayed up to watch the Australian Open Final. Djokovic and Nadal. Ani asked me, "You're rooting for Nadal right?" "Nope! I like Djokovic."  He and Erik looked at me puzzled. "Really?"

The same thing happened in Italy, funnily enough. You see, **cough cough** WHEN I WAS STUDYING ABROAD IN ITALY **cough cough**, every night while we eat our lavish dinner with salad, pasta, wine, entree, fruit, and dessert we also keep the TV on while we each, so much so that they joke the TV is an extra member. Anyways, this [ridiculous ass pasta commercial](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W7rOLRlqhuM) starring Roger Federer was on. My most mom went, "Ah, mi piace." "Eh. Mi piace Djokovic." *loud tsk* "Davvero?"

This past weekend, Djokovic won Wimbledon in one of the best matches in recent years. Five sets, with Djokovic eking out a victory in a tiebreak after 24 games in the last set. By every conceivable measure, Federer played better: he won more games, more points, had more aces, won more break points, and was more effective with his first serve, his second serve, at the net, and even though Djokovic is widely considered the best returner in history, Federer won more receiving points, and at a higher rate. But at the end of the match, it was the wiry Serb who plucked the grass from the court and chewed while most everyone in the stadium, and in my Twitter feed, begrudingly clapped.

One of the common criticisms you see is that he's boring to watch. He isn't like Federer; he doesn't glide on top of the court or make the ball slow down cinematically before he smack home a winner. He isn't Nadal; he isn't grunts, biceps, topspin, and loopy forehands. Watching Djokovic at the peak of his powers is like watching surgery on a grape; ruthlessly efficient, oddly satisfying, and inevitable. What makes him so good? He's just phenomenal at doing the most basic thing in the game: hitting the ball back. Whenever I watch his matches, I find myself grabbing my hamstrings. Djokovic will go into a full split, robbing his opponent of a winner, and then somehow spring back up and cover the necessary distance to turn the point on its head. He distorts the geometry of the court, like an anaconda suffocating the other player. He can flip the switch like no other, transitioning between aggressive and defensive play on a whim. There's a line that Brian Phillips wrote about Djokovic that I think about a lot. It's right after a set where he was demolished by Federer, and in a moment of rage he rips his shirt before sitting on the bench, eating a small gluten-free protein cube:

*It was the way Djokovic did it, with a careful deliberateness totally at odds with his ongoing outburst of temper, that foretold the rest of the match. It said that his mind was running on two planes at once. It said that he was melting down, but also attending to detail. It was funny to watch — a man eating a protein cube in wrath — but also a little terrifying. **Scream, but dot your i’s**: That’s Djokovic’s version of mental strength in 2015. The machine can catch fire, but the machine keeps running.* 

(I love that line in bold. Jesus.)

I think Djokovic is one of most compelling athletes in the world; I first started rooting for him for pretty dumb reasons. Beyond wanting to be a lil edgy and getting tired of all the Federer worship (*"I love the guy, don't get me wrong... but what about this Serbian guy"*), *Wait Wait Don't Tell Me* used the fact he has a monopoly on the world's supply of donkey cheese to bluff a listener, and after that I was hooked. There may be no other athlete so firmly in the running for the greatest of all time in their sport that elicits more apathy than Djokovic; in all likelihood, he will retire with the most Grand Slam victories of all time (4 slams behind Federer, four years younger, and he's a vegan health nut so he will age WELL), he's already the winningest player ever in terms of earnings, and he's the only player in the modern era to hold all four major titles at once. You can argue that he has held his peak longer (aside from that weird injury blip in like 2014) and reached greater heights at his peak than Federer or Nadal, and yet no one is writing [Djokovic as a Religious Experience](https://www.nytimes.com/2006/08/20/sports/playmagazine/20federer.html) (if you haven't read this yet, read it! It's DFW so it'll be a bit pretentious but honestly if you could write like that... wouldn't you be too?) Some deride his playstyle as boring, but unlike a Tim Duncan he has personality! He jokes around, does impressions of his peers, is cheeky with the camera, and *owns the world supply of donkey cheese*. He doesn't fit into the trope of excellent asshole, a la Draymond Green or Tom Brady. So why isn't he loved?

Tired: he came too late to the game, and ruined the two-party hegemony that Federer and Nadal had over tennis. We could've had two decades of Nadal-Federer finals, and this Serbian asshole comes in with his *flexibility* and *veganism* and a really nice backhand? Get him out.

Wired: Anti-eastern-European sentiment! American chauvinism! Tennis is a country club sport for the refined, not something a Serb can pick up playing on courts in Belgrade made netless by NATO bombings. This **poor** dares to overthrow our silky haired duopoly? Get him out. 

But I think it's something more fundamental to his personality, and something that makes him relatable, if not too relatable, as a star athlete in today's world: he tries hard. He tries so, so hard.





